RFC 116: store attachment data in content items (#116)
alphagov/govuk-rfcs: rfc-116-store-attachment-data-in-content-items.md

content.

## Proposal

In our content schemas we already have an [`asset_link` type][], which
[Specialist Publisher uses for storing its attachment data][].  This
solves all of our problems: [Publishing API can render such
attachments with govspeak][], and content items can expose this data
to enable programmatic use.

However, the metadata Govspeak expects and the `asset_link` type are
*informally* the same.  And furthermore, Whitehall has much richer
attachment metadata than either `asset_link` or Govspeak allow.  So
this proposal has three parts:

1. Add a new required field called `attachments` (of type
   `asset_link_list`) to the `details` of formats which can have
   attachments.

2. Document the relationship between the `asset_link` type in our
   content schemas and the data Govspeak attachments use.  For
   example, all fields required in one must be required in the other.
   Any pairs of fields which do the same job in both should have the
   same name.  Implement any changes arising from this.

3. Add new optional fields to the `asset_link` type:

   - `file_size` (used by govspeak)
   - `preview_url` (used by whitehall)

> 

Reviewer: A piece of data we're currently missing about attachments is language. It would be very helpful to be able to mark links to foreign language content appropriately for assistive tech, and also to be able to sort attachments so that if there are 2 language versions of a page we show only the correctly associated files alongside it. It looks like this might be a place this could be implemented.

Reviewer 2: This is a good idea, however we unfortunately we don't know whether the language of an attachment has deviated from the content of the document as a user never inputs this information.

I will raise this though in the Publishing Workflow team as we design the process for publication attachment management to see if it's something that can be improved.

Author: Whitehall does have a `locale` field for attachments.  I'm not sure how valuable it is, due to Kevin's comment.  I've included it (along with all the other Whitehall metadata) in the updated draft.

- We cannot generate comprehensive [schema.org][] metadata for attachments: [see this comment](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk_publishing_components/pull/1247#pullrequestreview-338008254).
- Publishing API is unable to tell Asset Manager to take an asset out of draft state, which means publishing apps have to communicate with both.

Additionally, users of the content API cannot make use of attachments
without parsing the page body.  This inhibits creative use of our
content.

## Proposal

1. Add a new required field called `attachments` (of type [`asset_link_list`][]) to the `details` of formats which can have attachments.

2. Add a new optional `preview_url` field to the `asset_link` type, making the schema:

   ```
   {
     asset_link: {
       type: "object",
       additionalProperties: false,
       required: [
         "url",
         "content_type",
       ],
       properties: {
         content_id: {
           "$ref": "#/definitions/guid",
         },
         url: {
           type: "string",
           format: "uri",
         },
         preview_url: {
           type: "string",
           format: "uri",
         },
         content_type: {

>            type: "string",

Reviewer 3: What do you envisage `content_type` to be? Are we talking `content_type: "image/png"` or something domain specific such as `content_type: "HtmlAttachment"? In which case, would each content type conform to its own schema?

Author: `image/png`, that sort of thing.  See https://www.gov.uk/api/content/employment-tribunal-decisions/mr-f-clayton-v-royal-mail-group-ltd-1800801-2017 for an example

list?  Maybe not, but I think it's better to be explicit that there
are no attachments for a document.

For implementing this RFC, the field should be optional, to avoid
breaking publishing apps which haven't yet been updated.  But once
Publishing API has ben updated to accept the field, and publishing
apps have been updated to set it, then it should be made mandatory.

**Why `preview_url`?  Why not other metadata?**

Whitehall CSV attachments have automatically generated previews, which
show you some initial portion of the file without needing to download
it.  That seems like a very useful feature to me, so it would be nice
to expose it in the metadata.

Other whitehall metadata, like ISBN, command/act paper number, and
price (for ordering a physical copy) seem much more special-case and
I'm not sure there would be much benefit to having them.

Information about how to ask for an accessible format only makes sense
as free text, so I see that as less useful to add to the content item,
which I imagine as being consumed by machines.

### Does this solve the problems?

**Can we generate schema.org metadata for attachments?**

> Yes, the only thing we need for that is the attachment URL.

Reviewer 3: ...and the content type, presumably?

Author: Yes, that's right

     - `parliamentary_session`
     - `preview_url`
     - `unique_reference`
     - `unnumbered_command_paper`
     - `unnumbered_hoc_paper`
   - Images:
     - `alt_text`
     - `caption`
     - `credit`
     - `id`

   I've left out the following fields because they can be deduced from
   others: `csv?`, `external?`, `external_url`, `file_extension`, `html?`,
   `opendocument?`, `pdf?`

   And these fields because they don't seem to be used:
   `print_meta_data_contact_address`, `web_isbn`.

   And these fields because the Publishing Workflow team are planning
   to remove them from Whitehall: `order_url`, `price_in_pence`.

   And these fields because they don't need to be exposed outside the
   publishing app: `attachable_id`, `attachable_type`,
   `attachment_data_id`, `deleted`, `ordering`, `slug`.

   **Migration concerns:** This can be done without breaking
   compatibility.

1. Replace `content_id` in attachments with `id`.

    **Migration concerns:** this would need to be done in four steps:
    add `id`; update apps; republish docs; remove `content_id`.

1. Remove non-useful metadata fields:

   - Attachments: `created_at` and `updated_at`
   - Images: `content_type`

>    **Migration concerns:** this would need to be done in two steps:

Author: And specialist-publisher displays that metadata in a table: https://github.com/alphagov/specialist-publisher/blob/51cbb843af9650e3b4ef3648d232d57872418989/app/views/documents/show.html.erb#L76-L77

I guess it depends on how useful publishers find that information.  We could remove it, but if they use it (eg, to quickly check if someone's updated an attachment which needed changing) then we'd probably want to keep it, even though it may be confusing to end-users.

>    **Migration concerns:** this would need to be done in two steps:

Reviewer 4: Oh dear, that's a bit of a blocker - and reasonable since Specialist Publisher is trying to (ab)use Publishing API as a not-so-private database. Should we consider a(nother) separate schema for Specialist Publisher attachments, so we don't interfere with its domain model?

>    **Migration concerns:** this would need to be done in two steps:

Author: I think this could actually be a good candidate for a "basic attachment" type, giving us this hierarchy of types:

- `base_attachment_asset` - has just the fields used by specialist-publisher
- `attachment_asset` - imports `base_attachment_asset` and adds the other fields in Kevin's post
- `extended_attachment_asset` - imports `attachment_asset` and adds the other Whitehall fields in Kevin's post

This would make the `created_at` and `updated_at` fields present but optional in all other attachment types.  I'd be wary of doing this:

```
      base_attachment
         |       |
attachment        specialist_attachment
```

(a fork in the type tree)

Or this:

```
attachment    specialist_attachment
```

(two totally disconnected types)

As I really don't want us to end up in the situation where our attachment types end up diverging and we get logic in govspeak like "if it's a regular attachment do *this*, otherwise if it's a specialist attachment do *that*."  I feel like, if we do have multiple attachment types, there's a clear hierarchy and each extends the one below it.

If we went for this I'd suggest removing `attachment_asset_list` and having the schemas for doctypes just have an appropriate list field.

What do you think? (cc @kevindew)

>    **Migration concerns:** this would need to be done in two steps:

Reviewer 4: @barrucadu I agree we should have a simple hierarchy. I do think we should consider something custom for Specialist Publisher, because it is custom and prone to diverge, being coupled to the internal needs of the app. I'd call it a smell.

The nice thing about `extended_attachment_asset` is that it implicitly disallows further subclassing. Reading the name, I'm interpreting it as "a dump of extra stuff that we don't care about much". I wonder if we should consider something more specific, that's equally "final". The idea that comes to mind is a `government_attachment`, since (I think) that uniquely groups all the HOC/ref/etc. fields we're discussing - not sure if @kevindew meant to duplicate these fields between the types he was suggesting?

>    **Migration concerns:** this would need to be done in two steps:

Reviewer 2: Oh great catch on the updated_at / created_at for Specialist Publisher, that is a pain.

That does seem to suggest multiple attachment types unless we're just prepared to keep those fields everywhere else.

So yes if we proceed with an approach towards other types what we'd likely do is a have a base_attachment set up in our schemas that acts like an abstract class. I'd guess that'd have:

accessible, alternative_format_contact_email, content_type, filename, file_size, locale, number_of_pages, preview_url, title (required), and url (required)

A `specialist_publisher_attachment_asset` would inherit from `base_attachment_asset` that and add the following fields:

content_id (required), created_at, updated_at

A `attachment_asset` would inherit from `base_attachment_asset` and have the following fields:

id (required)

A `government_attachemnt_asset` (or `publication_attachment_asset`) would inherit from `attachment_asset` and have the following fields:

attachment_type (required), command_paper_number, hoc_paper_number, isbn, parliamentary_session, unique_reference, unnumbered_command_paper, unnumbered_hoc_paper

A couple of things to note are:

- There isn't going to be a signifier as to which of these types you'd be dealing with based on the data that would depend on an applications knowledge that a document type follows a particular schema
- As attachment_type would only be present on `government_attachment_asset` we'd have to assume that attachments without it are file attachments, which seems a pretty reasonable assumption. This would probably only be a factor for govspeak that doesn't know about document types.

Would we be able to switch any apps that use the existing asset_link away from that so they can use the `attachment_asset` or would we find other apps end up needing to use the specialist publisher variant?

This also includes my suggestions on the ever thorny problem of names :-) I think for specialist publisher we might want to just verbosely name it to avoid any confusion - as a specialist attachment sounds like it's a special type rather than for a specialist publisher. I prefer the idea of naming the publication ones government than extended as that feels more direct, though I have concerns that it may cause confusion as all attachments are government ones. I slightly prefer using the name publication myself as these are government publications, even when they're on the consultation document type. Though I can understand resistance based on document type confusion so I'd be willing to go with government if that's what's preferred.

>    **Migration concerns:** this would need to be done in two steps:

Author: Regarding other apps, manuals-publisher [sets `updated_at` and `created_at`](https://github.com/alphagov/manuals-publisher/blob/master/app/adapters/publishing_adapter.rb#L247-L256).  But uses mongo as its database, so those fields could be dropped without impacting the experience for publishers.

```ruby
        attachments: section.attachments.map do |attachment|
          {
            content_id: SecureRandom.uuid,
            title: attachment.title,
            url: attachment.file_url,
            updated_at: attachment.updated_at,
            created_at: attachment.created_at,
            content_type: attachment.content_type,
          }
        end,
```

And travel-advice-publisher [doesn't set them at all](https://github.com/alphagov/travel-advice-publisher/blob/master/app/presenters/asset_presenter.rb#L10-L17).

```ruby
  def present
    if asset
      {
        "url" => asset["file_url"],
        "content_type" => asset["content_type"],
      }
    end
  end
```

So I think we could change those to use `attachment_asset`, and have both of them use `SecureRandom.uuid` for the `id`.

>    **Migration concerns:** this would need to be done in two steps:

Author: Since it seems like I'm the only one who wants specialist publisher attachments to be the base type, I'll go for the separate type approach.  I'll write up that change now.

      alternative_format_contact_email: { type: "string", },
      command_paper_number: { type: "string", },
      content_type: { type: "string", },
      file_size: { type: "integer", },
      filename: { type: "string", },
      hoc_paper_number: { type: "string", },
      id: { "$ref": "#/definitions/guid", },
      isbn: { type: "string", },
      locale: { "$ref": "#/definitions/locale", },
      number_of_pages: { type: "integer", },
      parliamentary_session: { type: "string", },
      preview_url: { type: "string", format: "uri", },
      title: { type: "string", },
      unique_reference: { type: "string", },
      unnumbered_command_paper: { type: "boolean", },
      unnumbered_hoc_paper: { type: "boolean", },
      url: { type: "string", format: "uri", },
    },
  },
  attachment_asset_list: {
    description: "An ordered list of attachment links",
    type: "array",
    items: {
      "$ref": "#/definitions/attachment_asset",
    },
  },
}
```

### Some design considerations

**Why two lists?**

There are really two different types of attachments in documents.
There are attachments which may be referenced in Govspeak but don't

> otherwise appear on the page, these attachments are more like metadata

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
otherwise appear on the page; in this case the attachment hashes are more like metadata
```

     - `preview_url`
     - `unique_reference`
     - `unnumbered_command_paper`
     - `unnumbered_hoc_paper`
   - Images:
     - `alt_text`
     - `caption`
     - `credit`
     - `id`

   I've left out the following fields because they can be deduced from
   others: `csv?`, `external?`, `external_url`, `file_extension`, `html?`,
   `opendocument?`, `pdf?`

   And these fields because they don't seem to be used:
   `print_meta_data_contact_address`, `web_isbn`.

   And these fields because the Publishing Workflow team are planning
   to remove them from Whitehall: `order_url`, `price_in_pence`.

   And these fields because they don't need to be exposed outside the
   publishing app: `attachable_id`, `attachable_type`,
   `attachment_data_id`, `deleted`, `ordering`, `slug`.

   **Migration concerns:** This can be done without breaking
   compatibility.

1. Replace `content_id` in attachments with `id`.

    **Migration concerns:** this would need to be done in five steps:
    add `id`; update app to read from both fields but write to `id`;
    republish docs; remove `content_id`; update apps to not use
    `content_id`.

1. Remove non-useful metadata fields:

>    - Attachments: `created_at` and `updated_at`

Author: I'm ambivalent about this change.  They don't seem to be used consistently across publishing apps: specialist-publisher sets them, travel-advice-publisher doesn't.  We could keep them though.

>    - Attachments: `created_at` and `updated_at`

Reviewer 2: I think these risk producing unhelpful or incorrect data from a consumers perspective. These fields tell us when asset was created on asset manager or updated there which is not the same as when a publisher created the asset or when they are willing to acknowledge making an edit to it. 

For example, consider migrating content from Whitehall to Content Publisher. As part of this we need to re-create the assets. This would set the metadata of an attachment as showing the asset as created at and updated at for the time of the migration. For a third party using this metadata it creates the bizarre situation that an asset published maybe 5 years ago was created and updated in 2020.

>    - Attachments: `created_at` and `updated_at`

Reviewer 4: +1 here! From my experience on DGU and GOV.UK: avoid exposing datetimes wherever possible 😬

>    - Attachments: `created_at` and `updated_at`

Reviewer 5: > This RFC looks really interesting. I had a conversation last year with the National Archives (representing other web archiving organisations) who said it would be useful to have JSON for attachments in the API responses in content items. It would allow them to collect attachments from pages.
> 
> I'll send the notes of the conversation to Michael, who can circulate it. (Apologies if this has already been mentioned in the thread above.)

Same for Parliament people who want command papers etc. 👍

      id: { type: "string", },
      alt_text: { type: "string", },
      caption: { type: "string", },
      credit: { type: "string", },
      url: { type: "string", format: "uri", },
    },
  },
  attachment_asset: {
    type: "object",
    additionalProperties: false,
    required: [
      "url",
      "content_type",
    ],
    properties: {
      accessible: { type: "boolean", },
      alternative_format_contact_email: { type: "string", },
      command_paper_number: { type: "string", },
      content_type: { type: "string", },
      file_size: { type: "integer", },
      filename: { type: "string", },
      hoc_paper_number: { type: "string", },
      id: { type: "string", },
      isbn: { type: "string", },
      locale: { "$ref": "#/definitions/locale", },
      number_of_pages: { type: "integer", },
      parliamentary_session: { type: "string", },
      preview_url: { type: "string", format: "uri", },
      title: { type: "string", },
      unique_reference: { type: "string", },
      unnumbered_command_paper: { type: "boolean", },
      unnumbered_hoc_paper: { type: "boolean", },
      url: { type: "string", format: "uri", },
    },
  },
  attachment_asset_list: {

>     description: "An ordered list of attachment links",

Reviewer 3: Ah, this is a type which applies to both `attachments` and `details.documents` - not just `details.documents`. (Thanks Ben Thorner for clarifying)
The latter needs to be ordered but the former doesn't necessarily have to be. My question still stands - how would you order the `attachments` field to take into account both types of attachment?

>     description: "An ordered list of attachment links",

Author: If the `details.documents` list refers to attachments by `id`, then I suppose this list doesn't actually need to be ordered at all: we have in-body attachments referred to by ID, in the markup written by the publisher; and we have featured attachments referred to by ID, in the markup generated by the publishing app.  It's fine for the publishing app to internally track what order attachments need to be in the generated `details.documents`.

It's also used in travel advice pages for the page image and a single
attachment.  This type appears to solve all of our problems:
[Publishing API can render such attachments with govspeak][], and
content items can expose this data to enable programmatic use.

However, the metadata Govspeak expects and the `asset_link` type are
only *informally* the same.  And furthermore, Whitehall has much richer
attachment metadata than either `asset_link` or Govspeak allow.

Given that `asset_link` is currently used for both images and
attachments, adding all of the missing metadata to `asset_link` feels
a mistake: images and attachments have different metadata, so we
shouldn't conflate the two.

I propose we do this:

1. Split `asset_link` into four new types: `base_attachment_asset`,
   `attachment_asset`, `specialist_publisher_attachment_asset` and
   `image_asset`, updating the schemas which use `asset_link`
   accordingly, with these fields:

   - `base_attachment_asset`:
     - `url` (required)
     - `content_type` (required)
     - `title`
   - `attachment_asset` (extends `base_attachment_asset`):
     - no extra fields at this time

>    - `specialist_publisher_attachment_asset` (extends `base_attachment_asset`):

Reviewer 4: Can we add some indicator about the need for this type? It's the first time we've mentioned Specialist Publisher in the RFC, and I think future readers would find it helpful to understand the additional persistence problem I believe we're trying to solve here.

Author: :+1:

     - `content_id` (required)
     - `created_at`
     - `updated_at`
   - `image_asset`:
     - `url` (required)
     - `content_type` (required)

   **Migration concerns:** This would need to be done in three steps:
   1. Update manuals-publisher to not set the `created_at` and `updated_at` for attachments.
   2. Republish all manual sections.
   3. Update the schemas.

1. Add new optional fields for extra metadata:

   - `base_attachment_asset`:
     - `accessible`
     - `alternative_format_contact_email`
     - `filename`
     - `file_size`
     - `locale`
     - `number_of_pages`
     - `preview_url`
   - `attachment_asset`
     - `id`
   - `image_asset`
     - `alt_text`
     - `caption`
     - `credit`

   **Migration concerns:** This can be done without breaking
   compatibility, as all new fields are optional.

1. Add new attachment type for publication attachments:

>     `publication_attachment_asset` (extends `attachment_asset`) with fields:

Reviewer 4: Minor: it helped me to check Whitehall and realise `Publication` and `Consultation` are both `Publicationesque`, which is presumably the reason for the naming here?

Author: Yes, do you think that would be a good name, if it were explained in the RFC?

Reviewer 4: I think `publication_attachment_asset` is fine, and it would be helpful to explain the reasoning briefly.

   `opendocument?`, `pdf?`

   And these fields because they don't seem to be used:
   `print_meta_data_contact_address`, `web_isbn`.

   And these fields because the Publishing Workflow team are planning
   to remove them from Whitehall: `order_url`, `price_in_pence`.

   And these fields because they don't need to be exposed outside the
   publishing app: `attachable_id`, `attachment_data_id`, `deleted`,
   `ordering`, `slug`.

   **Migration concerns:** This can be done without breaking
   compatibility, as the new type will be unused for now.

1. Make `id` in `attachment_asset` mandatory.

    **Migration concerns:** this would need to be done in three steps:
    1. Update travel advice publisher and manuals publisher to set an arbitrary ID for attachments.
    2. Republish all travel advice pages and manual sections.
    3. Make the field mandatory.

1. Add a *mandatory* `details.attachments` field to all formats which
   can have attachments.

    **Migration concerns:** this would need to be done in four steps:
    1. Add the field as optional.
    2. Update publishing apps to write to it.
    3. Republish all affected documents.
    4. Make the field mandatory.

> 1. Add a *mandatory* `details.document_attachments` list to

Reviewer 4: I think there's some potential for confusion here between `document_attachments` and `attachments`, as they superficially imply the same thing. To some extent we could resolve this with a well-written description in the schema. Did we consider `featured_attachments` as a name here?

Author: I think `featured_attachments` would be a good name for it

Reviewer 4: @kevindew?

   2. Update publishing apps to not set `details.documents`.
   3. Republish all affected documents.
   4. Remove the field.

The final schemas will be:

```
{
  image_asset: {
    type: "object",
    additionalProperties: false,
    required: [
      "content_type",
      "url",
    ],
    properties: {
      alt_text: { type: "string", },
      caption: { type: "string", },
      content_type: { type: "string", },
      credit: { type: "string", },
      url: { type: "string", format: "uri", },
    },
  },

  base_attachment_asset: {
    type: "object",
    additionalProperties: false,
    required: [
      "content_type",
      "url",
    ],
    properties: {
      accessible: { type: "boolean", },
      alternative_format_contact_email: { type: "string", },
      content_type: { type: "string", },
      file_size: { type: "integer", },
      filename: { type: "string", },
      locale: { "$ref": "#/definitions/locale", },
      number_of_pages: { type: "integer", },
      preview_url: { type: "string", format: "uri", },
      title: { type: "string", },
      url: { type: "string", format: "uri", },
    },
  },

>   attachment_asset: {

Reviewer 4: It looks like we need this because Specialist Publisher will be the only app not sending IDs with its attachments. Given the relative simplicity of have a single "base" `attachment_asset`, would it be worth including Specialist Publisher in the step where we republish other attachments with arbitrary IDs? Then I think we could drop `base_attachment_asset` and just have `attachment_asset` with a mandatory ID.

There may be other considerations that are motivating this hierarchy. If so, could we articulate them in here somewhere - maybe in the 'questions' section at the bottom?

Author: I agree, when writing up the schema I did start to question why `attachment_asset` needed to be a separate thing.  I'll add a step about adding IDs to specialist-publisher attachments.

   `ordering`, `slug`.

   **Migration concerns:** This can be done without breaking
   compatibility, as the new type will be unused for now.

1. Make `attachment_type` and `id` in `file_attachment_asset` mandatory.

    **Migration concerns:** this would need to be done in three steps:
    1. Update specialist publisher, travel advice publisher, and
       manuals publisher to set the fields.
    2. Republish all affected documents.
    3. Make the field mandatory.

1. Add a *mandatory* `details.attachments` field to all formats which
   can have attachments.

    **Migration concerns:** this would need to be done in four steps:
    1. Add the field as optional.
    2. Update publishing apps to write to it.
    3. Republish all affected documents.
    4. Make the field mandatory.

1. Add a *mandatory* `details.featured_attachments` list to
   publication formats, which is an ordered list of govspeak or HTML
   strings (using the `#/definitions/multiple_content_types` schema)
   rendering attachments from `details.attachments`.

   **Migration concerns:** this would need to be done in four steps:
   1. Add the field as optional.

>    2. Update publishing apps (just Whitehall and Content Publisher) to write to it.

Reviewer 4: Just a minor thing to check: we're intentionally leaving this open as to whether the app, or the Publishing API, does the actual rendering?

Author: I think it would be nice if the Publishing API rendered it, for consistency between apps, but ultimately it doesn't matter too much so long as all the metadata is still in `details.attachments`.

    type: "object",
    additionalProperties: false,
    required: [
      "attachment_type",
      "url",
    ],
    properties: {
      attachment_type: { type: "string", enum: ["html"], },
      id: { type: "string" },
      locale: { "$ref": "#/definitions/locale", },
      title: { type: "string", },
      url: { type: "string", format: "uri", },
    },
  },

  external_attachment_asset: {
    type: "object",
    additionalProperties: false,
    required: [
      "attachment_type",
      "url",
    ],
    properties: {
      attachment_type: { type: "string", enum: ["external"], },
      id: { type: "string" },
      locale: { "$ref": "#/definitions/locale", },
      title: { type: "string", },
      url: { type: "string", format: "uri", },
    },
  },

  specialist_publisher_attachment_asset: {
    allOf: [
      { "$ref": "#/definitions/file_attachment_asset" },
      {
        required: [
          "content_id",
        ],
        properties: {
          content_id: { "$ref": "#/definitions/guid", },
          created_at: { format: "date-time", },
          updated_at: { format: "date-time", },
        },
      },
    ],
  },

  publication_attachment_asset: {

>     allOf: [

Reviewer 2: I don't think this allOf is going to quite work because the various attachment asset schemas are set to have `additionalProperties: false` which would mean they fail the oneOf schema if they have any of the publication properties. 

I am impressed though with this allOf approach, I didn't know about this technique to allow inheritance - very clever.

Author: Hmm, that's annoying.  The json-schema maintainer says that json-schema isn't for inheritance (https://github.com/json-schema-org/json-schema-spec/issues/348#issuecomment-322940347), so there might be no better solution than duplicating all the fields.

Reviewer 2: Sure - field duplication is how we've solved this problem in the past so would be consistent with our prior approaches.

As we use [jsonnet](https://jsonnet.org/) to define the schema definitions we can cut this duplication out of the code that manages schemas. For instance, my initial expectation of this base_attachment_asset was that it'd be something that existed in jsonnet.

Author: :+1:
